Q-SYS Remote WebSocket Control QRWC is a NPM library for interacting with Q-SYS design controls from
a Node or browser app using websockets What is this repository for? QDS Version 10.0.0 or higher
Implementation and use Installation npm install @q-sys/qrwc Getting started // This is in
Typescript, but for Javascript you can just strip the types out

import { Qrwc } from '@q-sys/qrwc'

const socket = new WebSocket('ws://{IP}/qrc-public-api/v0')

// Create a new Qrwc instance with the open socket const qrwc = await Qrwc.createQrwc<{ Gain: 'gain'
| 'mute' // tell typescript there is a 'Gain' component with both 'gain' and 'mute' controls }>({
socket, pollingInterval: 350 // Optional: polling interval in milliseconds (default: 350) })

// note that QRWC will only have access to components that have been marked as scriptable

// grab the EventEmitter for the control you care about const gain0 =
qrwc.components.Gain.controls.gain // Control

// controls not in the generic parameter will need some type narrowing const gain1 =
qrwc.components.Gain_1?.controls.gain // Control | undefined

// Listen for updates to the gain control. Listener parameter is a deconstructed IControlState
gain0.on('update', ({ Value, Position, String, Bool }) => { console.log(
`Control updated with new values: ${Value} ${Position} ${String} ${Bool}` ) if (Value > 10) { const
updatedState = await gain0.update(10) // returns a promise for the updated state (IControlState) }
})

// when finished, close QRWC qrwc.close() Start options Qrwc.createQrwc() accepts an object with
options:

socket: Required WebSocket instance connected to a Q-SYS Core pollingInterval: Optional interval in
milliseconds for polling control changes (minimum: 34, default: 350) componentFilter : Optional
filter function callback to allow for connecting to a subset of components in a design timeout:
Optional timeout in milliseconds for websocket messages (default 5000 ms) interface IStartOptions {
socket: IWebSocket pollingInterval?: number componentFilter?: (componentState: IComponentState) =>
boolean timeout?: number } Note: If no options object is provided or if values are not present in
the object, QRWC will perform all actions per default settings.

Default Settings If no options are provided for specific values:

pollingInterval - A polling rate will be set of 350, or roughly 3 times a second componentFilter -
All scriptable components in the design will be fetched from the core timeout - The timeout will be
set to 5000ms Connection handling Qrwc provides a disconnected event that is triggered when the
WebSocket connection is closed This cleans up all listeners attached to the instance / intervals /
classes You should create a new WebSocket & instance of Qrwc to reconnect after disconnection
qrwc.on('disconnected', (reason: string) => { console.log('Disconnected:', reason) // implement your
reconnect strategy here }) Getting to controls After Qrwc has been initialized with createQrwc(),
you can access all components/controls via qrwc.components qrwc.components is formatted as a
dictionary using component names as key names. Controls are also formatted as a dictionary within
component.controls with control names as key names. { "Text*Box": { // stable ref to the Component
event emitter "name": "Text_Box", // `state` is a readonly grab-bag for misc properties // a
property will likely be inside `state` even if it's not in the typescript type "state": { "ID":
"Text_Box", "Name": "Text_Box", "Type": "custom_controls", "Properties": [ { "Name":"type_1",
"Value":"13", "PrettyName":"Type" }, // continued ... ], "ControlSource": 2 } "controls": {
"text.1": { // stable ref to the Control event emitter "name": "text.1", "component": <object ref
back to "Text_Box">, // state on the control functions similarly to state on the component // it
gets a new readonly object with a new ref every update, so it can support functional patterns
"state": { "Name": "text.1", "Type": "Text", "String": "textin", "Direction": "Read/Write",
"Component": "Text_Box", "Value": 0, "Position": 0, "Choices": [], "Color": "", "Indeterminate":
false, "Invisible": false, "Disabled": false, "Legend": "", "CssClass": "" } } }, } } See below for
control object API Interacting with the control object Accessing a control object const { mute /*
Control \_/ } = qrwc.components.Gain.controls

mute.on('update', (state: IControlState) => { console.log('Mute: ', state.Value) })

const newState: IControlState = await mute.update(true) // update param can be string, number, or
boolean Accessing a control object with a complex name const text1: Control =
qrwc.components.Text_Box.controls['text.1'] Updating the core: To update a control on the core, use
the control's update method:

const { String: newString /_ 'Hello world' _/ } = await control.update('Hello world') // for string
values

const { Position: newPosition /_ 20 _/ } = await control.update(20) // for numeric values const {
Bool: newBool /_ true _/ } = await control.update(true) // for boolean values

const newState /_ IControlState w/ updated value _/ = await control.update(15) Control State
Properties The control state object provides the following properties:

Name: The name of the control. Component: The name of the component. Value: The value of the
control. Can be a string, number, or undefined. String: The string of the control. Can be a string
or undefined. Position: The position of the control. Can be a number or undefined. Bool: A boolean
representation of the control's position. Returns true if the position is 0.5 or greater, false
otherwise. If the control's type is not 'Boolean', it emits an error event and returns undefined.
Type: The type of the control. Can be a string or undefined. This is not an exhaustive list. A
control property is likely inside state even if it is not represented in the typescript type.

Layered Event Listeners This example shows how to work with different types of controls, listen for
changes at different levels, and manage component/control interactions:

// --------- Setting up event listeners at different levels ---------

// 1. Global level event listener (already set up in previous example) // This catches all control
updates across all components qrwc.on('update', (component, control, state) => {
console.log(`[Global] ${component.name}.${control.name} updated:`, state) })

// 2. Component level event listeners // These catch all control updates for a specific component if
(qrwc.components.Gain) { qrwc.components.Gain.on('update', (control, state) => {
console.log(`[Component] Gain control ${control.name} changed:`, state) }) }

// 3. Control level event listeners (recommended) // Most specific, only catches updates for a
single control if (qrwc.components.Text_Box?.controls['text.1']) { const textControl =
qrwc.components.Text_Box.controls['text.1']

    textControl.on('update', (state) => {
      console.log(`[Control] Text updated to: ${state.String}`)
    })

} }
